---
layout: post
title: Teapot
date: 2020-02-28 16:00:00 +0000
categories: short story, fiction

---
Yeah, I’m a little teapot, short and stout. But if you try to make anything out of that I’ll kick your ass. We can’t all be born to be stainless steel coffee urns. But what I lack in physical stature, I more than make up for in sheer gumption. So don’t mess with me.

I was relaxing in my office that morning with a nice cup of tea spiked with Jack Daniels when she walked through the door. She was a real lady, alright. Not your normal flatware, that’s for sure. She had curves in all the right places and she was clearly well-polished. My water started bubbling as soon as I saw my face reflected in her shiny silver bowl. They don’t make ‘em like that anymore. Her beautiful oval head tapered down to the most attractive handle I’d ever seen. That dame could spoon with me anytime, I thought.

“Mr. Kettle, I presume? I understand that you are a private detective, is that right?”

Even her voice was attractive. Steam started coming out of my spout. I tried like hell not to whistle at her.

“That’s what it says on the door, Gorgeous. Call me Sam. What can I do for you?”

“I am Lady Portmeirion. I have a case that I’d like you to work on for me.”

I’d like to work on her case, for sure, I thought. I’ll bet it’s a very nice case. Smooth burgundy felt. Solid wood framing. Just the two of us, rubbing against the…

“Mr. Kettle? Sam?”

I snapped out of it. “Yeah, as it happens I have some time right now. Please take a seat and tell me what you need, Lady Portmeirion.”

She sat. I reached for a rag and wiped the condensation from my lid. I’d swear the temperature in the room had increased by at least 50 degrees in the last minute or two. I waited for her to speak.

“It’s my husband, Mr. Kettle. I’m sorry, I mean Sam. My husband. Lord Portmeirion. I think that … he’s seeing someone else.” She broke down in tears. I let her cry for a minute, then I handed her a silver polishing cloth that I keep in my desk drawer for moments like these. She dried her eyes and buffed herself, handing me back the rag with a sad little smile.

“If he’s seeing anyone else, he’s an idiot, Mrs. Portmeirion. If you don’t mind me saying.”

“Thank you, Sam. But I’m afraid it’s true.”

“And what would you like me to do about it, Ma’am?”

“I need photographs, Sam. Proof of his infidelity. Without that, I’m afraid that he might divorce me and leave me with nothing.”

I nodded sagely, but a little too far. A few drops of hot water escaped from my spout but she was kind enough not to comment on it.

“One more thing,” she purred. “We need a cover story.”

“What’s that?” I asked.

“It’s a lie to cover our tracks. I’m surprised you didn’t know that, Sam.”

“I know what a cover story is. I’m asking why we need one.”

“My husband … knows things. He pays people to follow me. He may ask you why we met.”

“I see. Sure. How about this: You hired me to find your long lost twin sister, who ran off with a guy who plays the spoons.”

“No,” she replied. “That won’t do. My husband is quite aware that my sister settled down with a nice man who manages a dinner service. Instead, we’ll say that I asked you to guard these valuables for me.” She handed me a box. I looked inside and let off some steam. Damn, I thought. I’d hate to be walking down a dark alley and suddenly meet the oysters those pearls came from. Underneath the pearls was a slip of paper with some numbers written on it. I didn’t know what they meant and I didn’t care. That was my first mistake.

I closed the box and looked at her perfect form. The windows began to steam up. She waited.

I finally collected myself and said, “Okay. I get $500 a day plus expenses. If I get you the proof you need, I get an extra two grand at the end of the job. That sound okay to you, Ma’am?”

She agreed and I had my secretary bring in the usual contract for her to sign. I placed the box of pearls and her cash advance in my safe. She got up and headed for the door. As she was leaving, she suddenly turned and whispered in a sultry voice, “If you need me, Sam, just whistle. You know how to whistle, don’t you? You just put your lips together and blow.”

I knew how to whistle. I was boiling over as she left the room. You could hear the sound five blocks away. Dogs started to howl. It took a full three minutes for me to cool down.

 

***

 

The dame wasn’t kidding about her hubby. Walking home that night, a car drove up on the curbside and before I could react two mugs jumped out and grabbed me. The first mug smelled of stale coffee and told me we were going for a ride. The second one had more of a pilsner aroma. He said nothing and shoved me into the back seat. They got in on either side of me, and the driver took off.

I started to boil and felt a sharp object pushed into my side. Coffee mug muttered menacingly, “Keep the lid on, Kettle, or I’ll plug you.” Beer mug just looked out the window and smirked.

I decided I’d better keep chill until I found out just what the deal was. I sat back and enjoyed the ride. We drove past a guardhouse and through some gates onto the Portmeirion estate. It was the kind of place you generally only see in the movies, built by people who had more money than sense and who probably didn’t even know how many rooms it had, much less been inside all of them. There was smoke coming out of several of the chimneys. Probably burning money, I figured. I seriously considered raising my fee. At a minimum, I’d be heavily padding my expenses. Baby needed a new tea cozy.

We stopped in front of the main doors. “Get out,” coffee mug instructed. “His Goblet wishes to have a word with you.”

I got out. The door to the mansion was being held open by a stunning dish. She was hard, smooth, and pleasingly round, wearing a dress that provided just the right amount of embroidery around the edges. Her perfume smelled of elderberries. She took my coat and directed me to the library. “Have a seat. His Goblet, the Lord Portmeirion, will be with you in a few moments. Is there anything I can get for you while you wait?”

Unusually for me, I refrained from making a sexist comment. Instead, I asked, “Are you his Butler?”

“Of course not. I’m his Cutler.”

“His Cutlet? I’ll bet you are.”

“No. His Cutler. One who makes, deals in, or repairs cutlery. Look it up. Gosh, it’s cold in here. Do me a favor and stoke that fire a little, would you?”

I went over to the fireplace and threw another log on, then adjusted its position using the iron poker.

“Much better,” she smiled. “Thanks.”

With that, the sexy dish departed, presumably to polish the dinnerware. I closed my eyes and imagined I was made of heavily tarnished silver.

Lord Portmeirion entered a few moments later. He had a stately bearing and crystalline features. He seemed a bit in his cups, and I wondered how much wine he could hold. It seemed like quite a lot. He sloshed around as he paced back and forth.

“I understand that my wife came to see you earlier today, Mr. Kettle. I’d like for you to tell me why.”

“I’m afraid that my relationship with my clients is confidential,” I replied.

“It’s good that you’re afraid, Mr. Kettle. Very good, indeed. Because there is a man who works for me who can be very persuasive. Shall I call him in?”

“You mean Coffee Mug or Beer Mug? We’ve already met, and they don’t seem so tough to me.”

“Ah, no. Not them. I was referring to Mack. We call him Mack the Knife.”

I’d heard of The Knife. He was no joke. Sharp as a razor, he would come straight to the point in an interview. Not someone you’d want to take a stab at questioning you, particularly if he was on edge.

So I backtracked. I’m tough, but I’m no fool. “There’s no need to be unpleasant, Your Gobletness. As the Lady’s husband, I’m sure it will be fine if I tell _you_. She asked me to guard an item for her. A string of pearls.”

“Now why would she do that? We have a perfectly serviceable house safe.”

“I wouldn’t know, Your Carafe. Perhaps you should ask her. I just do as I’m paid.”

Lord Portmeirion nodded and reached for the half-empty wine bottle on the side table. He tipped it up and it emptied into his orifice. I wondered again how he could hold so much wine without toppling over.

“Alright, Mr. Kettle, you’re free to go. But I hope I shan’t find out that you’ve been lying to me. That would be … unhealthy.” And with that, the good Lord turned on his heels and walked out.

The sexy dish returned with my coat and saw me out the door. There was no car waiting, so I walked out of the main gate. When I was out of the line of sight of the guard, I circled back toward the house and hopped over the fence, hoping like hell that they didn’t employ any attack dogs on the estate.

I found a nice spot in the tree line, overlooking the house. I settled in and steeped for a while.

Around 11 pm, another car arrived and a young woman entered the house. Through the lighted window, I could see Lord Portmeirion embrace her. I raised my camera, thinking “paydirt.” I was so focused on my camera that I didn’t hear anyone creeping up behind me until it was too late. I got the briefest whiff of elderberries, and then something struck the back of my head.

Blackness.

 

***

 

I woke up with a crushing headache and reached up to find that my head was bandaged. It was a few minutes before I trusted myself enough to open my eyes. The light made my head hurt even more, but I squinted until I realized that I was lying in a filthy jail cell. A cop was grinning at me from the other side of the bars.

“Officer Pott,” I moaned. “What an unexpected pleasure.”

“We finally got you dead to rights this time,” Pott sneered. “You’ll hang for this, Kettle.”

I rubbed my head, then decided that this was a bad idea. “What are you talking about, Pott? You’re gonna hang me for taking some pictures of a guy?”

“Haw! Taking pictures! That’s a good one.” He unlocked the cell and pushed me toward the interview rooms. “Let’s go, Blackie.”

He knew I hated that nickname.

Detective Decanter walked up behind us. “Pott, don’t let me hear you call the Kettle black again. Do you understand me?”

“He can’t help it,” I said. “He’s a racist bastard.”

“After you, _Sir_,” slurred Officer Pott as he held the interview room door open for me. He slyly gave me a sharp poke in the ribs while Decanter wasn’t watching. We sat down, and Decanter came in a moment later.

Decanter pushed a button on the table. “Interview of Sam Kettle, Tuesday, March 7th, 10:20 am. Present are Detective Decanter and Officer Pott. So, Kettle, you finally lost it, yeah? You had the combination to the safe and you just couldn’t resist the opportunity to take the pearls, could you? Go ahead, explain yourself. Spill.”

“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

“We found the pearls in your office, Kettle, right where you’d stashed them. Along with the combination of the Portmeirions’ safe. How did you get that, by the way?”

“Lady Portmeirion gave me a paper with some numbers, along with the pearls. I didn’t know they were the combination for her safe.”

“Oh, so the lady _gave_ you the pearls? Funny, she says they were stolen.”

“I’ve been set up. She came to see me. Ask Lord Portmeirion. He knows.”

“Yeah, well that might present a problem,” scoffs Pott. “Since you killed him and all.”

A chill ran down my spine. “Killed? His Goblet is dead?”

“Crystal shards and red wine all over the floor. You really made a mess of it, Kettle. A very sloppy job. Your prints were all over the murder weapon that you left at the scene.”

“Ah. The poker.”

“Yeah,” said the detective. “I thought you were smarter than that, Kettle.”

Pott added, “I didn’t.”

“I _am_ smarter than that,” I exclaimed. “I’ve been set up. The Cutler did it.”

“The Cutler, eh?”

“Yes. I don’t know her name. She’s the one in charge of the cutlery. I think she and Lady Portmeirion are in cahoots. Talk to them.”

“Okay, Kettle,” nodded Detective Decanter. “I’ve always thought you were a little hot-headed, but I never had you pegged as a killer. I’ll check out your story. In the meantime, feel free to enjoy the comfort of our fine jail.”

 

***

 

Sometime later, Detective Decanter visited me in my cell. “We’re letting you go for now, Kettle. But don’t leave town. The investigation is still ongoing and you’re a prime suspect.”

“Did you arrest the Lady and her Cutler?”

“Actually, no,” admitted the detective sheepishly. “They both seem to have skipped town.”

“I knew it,” I said. “The dish ran away with the spoon.”

 

***

Pete Simons