---
layout: post
title: Dodo
date: 2020-03-17 17:00:00 +0000
categories: short story, fiction

---
The Dodo used to walk around,  
And take the sun and air.  
The sun yet warms his native ground –  
The Dodo is not there!

The voice which used to squawk and squeak  
Is now for ever dumb –  
Yet may you see his bones and beak  
All in the Mu-se-um

\- From _Bad Child’s Book of Beasts_ by Hilaire Belloc, 1896

\**********************************************************************************************

Cornelius Augustus Frump, King of the Dodoes, was lord over all he surveyed. Of course, at a height of three feet and with an inability to fly he couldn’t survey a hell of a lot. But it was enough for him. He lived in the forest on the island of Mauritius, east of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean. It was the middle of the rainy season and food was plentiful. His wife was expecting an egg any day now. Life was good.

King Frump strutted along the edge of the forest, near the cliff that overlooked the sea. He noticed one of his subjects standing at the cliff’s edge. He waddled over, proud of the extra weight he had put on during the past several weeks. This fat would come in handy when the dry season started and food supplies diminished.

“Salutations, loyal subject! And how are you this fine day?” hailed the King.

“Not well, my lord,” replied the other dodo without even turning around. “There is trouble coming.”

King Frump pointed his long beak skyward, indicating his displeasure. _I wish I had not approached him_, thought the King. _He is always so morose. If he weren’t my wife’s cousin, I never would have employed him as Royal Soothsayer._ To avoid marital discord, the king wisely held his tongue about this opinion. Instead, he asked, “What kind of trouble, Soothsayer Silas? What sooth say you?”

“Look yonder upon the sea, my lord. Trouble approaches. It is the end of all.”

King Frump extended his feathers for show and stared out at the water. He noticed a very large creature riding the waves and fast approaching the shoreline.

“Is that a whale?” the king asked.

“It is not like any whale I’ve ever seen, your dodo-ship. Its head tapers to a point. And it has great white wings on its back, which bulge in the wind.”

“Why do you sooth that it be trouble?”

The soothsayer pointed his beak down and shook his body, demonstrating discomfort. “It brings death. I feel it. It is the end of us all.”

King Frump pointed his royal proboscis at the sky. “Methinks you need a bath and a good meal, Silas. I’m sure whatever it is will leave us in peace.”

“No. It is our enemy.”

The king was not used to being disagreed with. He turned abruptly and waddled back into the forest, thinking that he really should have made Silas the Royal Crab-catcher instead of Royal Soothsayer. And wondering what an “enemy” was.

\**********************************************************************************************

Admiral Wybrand Van Warwyck used his telescope to examine the island as the Dutch ship approached. He had resolved to land and name it “Mauritius” after Prince Maurice of Nassau. The year was 1598.

They anchored off the southeastern coast and took several small boats ashore. The chosen officers and crewmembers disembarked and stood in a circle while Admiral Van Warwyck planted a flag and claimed the island for the Dutch Republic. Although the Portuguese were actually the first to visit here, they never settled and the Portuguese government was uninterested in laying claim.

The sailors noticed several large birds moving around the beach, hunting for crabs. They sported a brownish-colored plumage and yellow feet, but their most distinctive feature was a large green, yellow and black beak. Most if not all of the men wondered what the bird would taste like. They wouldn’t have to guess for long. The creatures displayed no fear of humans and walked straight up to them. If startled, they could run away very quickly but they never exhibited a capacity or an inclination to fly.

The birds didn’t know what they were in for.

Van Warwyck named the flightless feathered thing “walghvoghel,” meaning “tasteless bird” or “boring bird.” Some years later it became known as the dodo, possibly based upon the Portuguese word “doudo,” meaning “crazy.”

The dodo made a sound sort of like a pigeon (to which it was related). It went “doo-doo.”

\***********************************************************************************************

Soothsayer Silas watched the landing of the humans from the shade of some nearby trees. Being of an unusually untrusting mindset, he declined to walk up to the strange lumbering creatures for a better view, unlike many of his fellow dodoes. This is how he was able to escape and bring the news back to the king.

“King Frump! King Frump!” Silas exclaimed, out of breath.

“Calm yourself, Soothsayer Silas. What is the matter?”

“The creatures! They came ashore from the “not-a-whale.” It must’ve spit them out. I told you it was the enemy. They attacked our people.”

Beak up, the king tried to remain calm. “Slow down, Silas. Not so fast. What is this word you speak – “enemy”? And what do you mean by “attacked”? I don’t understand.”

“I … I mean … the creatures that travel with the “not-a-whale” mean us harm! I think they intend to eat us.”

“Doo-doo, doo-doo,” the king laughed. “How can they do us harm? Nothing eats us. We eat crabs. And fruit. And nuts. And seeds. But none of them eat us. How could they? Nothing on this island can do us harm. You’re making no sense.”

“Nothing could harm us before, that is true. Not until today.”

“That is doo-doo,” said the king definitively. “What has happened before must continue to happen. Thus is the way of the world. No one has ever eaten us. Therefore no one will ever eat us. We dodoes are the dominant form of life on Earth, and we shall always be the dominant form of life on Earth. That just stands to reason. You are being foolish, Silas. Get out of my sight. You are dismissed.”

Silas walked away with his bill down, shivering.

Some weeks later, King Frump wondered where several of his court had disappeared to. But he shrugged it off. They must have joined another flock. What else could possibly have happened?

Silas continued to watch the new creatures from the trees, but he never approached them.

Then he realized that the new creatures weren’t even the worst part.

The creatures had brought other creatures.

And the other creatures brought death. They brought worse than death. They brought extinction.

\************************************************************************************************

King Frump’s wife Imelda was inconsolable.

She knew she had left the egg safe in the nest. It was much too early for it to have hatched. The crabs would never find their way up here, and even if they had they would have left the broken shell as evidence of their presence.

The egg was simply gone. How could it have moved? Could another dodo have done it? No, that was impossible. Unthinkable.

The situation made her angry. She raised her beak to the sky.

And that’s when she saw the thing in the tree. A thing she had never seen before.

It was looking down at her.

It held the egg in its furry hands.

And then it broke the egg open and licked out the contents.

“Doo-doo,” Imelda cried.

\**********************************************************************************************

Extinction doesn’t happen overnight. Well, maybe it does when you’re down to the last survivor and it dies in its sleep. Or when a large enough meteor strikes the earth. But as a general rule, extinction takes centuries.

For the dodo, it took about seventy years. The humans caused it, of course, but not quite in the way you might think.

There were never more than fifty or so people living on Mauritius in the 17th century. Truth be told, many of them didn’t care for the taste of dodo. Hunting by humans was not the reason why the dodo became extinct. There were two other problems.

First, there were the trees. Or rather, the lack of them.

Lumber was a valuable commodity back then, as it still is today. Unfortunately, Greenpeace was not sailing yet and there were very few environmentalists around to stop the Europeans from bringing down an entire ecosystem. So that is what they did.

Little by little, year by year, the forest on Mauritius disappeared; forcing the dodoes to move further and further into the island’s interior, where food was not quite as plentiful.

Second, as already mentioned the European sailors did not travel alone. They had non-human companions, some by choice and some not.

There were rats. They stowed away on the ships and some of them got to shore.

There were cats. The sailors had brought these on board to help control the rats.

There were live pigs, occasionally slaughtered for meat.

There were a few dogs.

And all of these were bad, at least from the standpoint of the dodo. But worst of all, there were macaques.

Macaques. Old world monkeys. They adapted well to living with humans and were popular exotic pets in Europe. The sailors brought them back from India and other locations in Asia, selling them at a nice profit at home. The macaques were agile. They were fast. And oh, so very clever.

And now they were on Mauritius.

They loved to eat eggs. And crabs.

\********************************************************************************************

Several years passed on the island, and life for the dodo seemed little changed except there were fewer crabs, fewer trees, fewer edible plants, and fewer egg hatchings. Every now and then a dodo would have an unfortunate encounter with a dog or a pig or a human. Still, King Frump looked down from the cliff at several “not-a-whales” swimming placidly in the water and he judged that life was good. If he’d really thought hard about it, dodo life clearly wasn’t as good as it used to be; but the king had a pigeon brain and couldn’t recall back that far.

Soothsayer Silas did remember the past. More importantly, he remembered the future. He saw where this was all heading and he felt terrible about it. But he couldn’t convince anyone that the danger was imminent.

Because it wasn’t exactly imminent. It was gradual. Creeping. Insidious.

“What do you mean the trees are gone, Silas?” asked King Frump. “Trees do not disappear. They stand forever. There are plenty of trees. Look around.”

“There are trees right here, yes. But not where we used to live. Next year, these trees will be gone and we will have to move again.”

“Nonsense.”

“Look at this graph I made with my beak in the dirt. It plots the number of treed acres along with egg hatchings and the total dodo population versus time. Do you see the lines all sloping downward? This means something. Something very bad.”

King Frump stomped upon the dirt and rubbed out the lines with his bill. “Doo-doo! Lies! Deceit! Science!” (The latter being the very worst kind of falsehood, according to the king.) “I am tired of your counsel, Silas. You will sooth no more. You are dismissed. You are banished from my sight. Off with you!”

Silas pointed his beak toward the ground and shivered. Then he waddled off into the forest.

\**********************************************************************************************

According to researchers who make it their business to know such things, the average lifespan of the dodo was believed to have been about twenty years. King Frump lived a long life and died a happy death, thinking that he had been the greatest dodo king who had ever reigned. Queen Imelda laid another egg, which she guarded around the clock and which hatched without incident. The hatchling was named Prince Joe. He eventually became king, and although he did things slightly differently from his father, he didn’t do much.

From the day the first “not-a-whale” arrived, it took four generations for the dodoes to disappear from Mauritius and a few of the surrounding islands. Each generation thought it lived in the best of all possible worlds, which was nice.

As for Soothsayer Silas, he expired peacefully while drawing graphs in the sand. A hundred years later, his bones were recovered and shipped to the Oxford University Museum of Natural History. The curator reassembled the skeleton and positioned it with its beak pointed towards the ground.

\**********************************************************************************************

Pete Simons